[JS] Update docs for js package (#2968)
openvinotoolkit/openvino.genai: site/docs/bindings/node-js.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Node.js
description: Node.js bindings provide JavaScript/TypeScript API.
---

# Node.js Bindings for OpenVINO™ GenAI

OpenVINO GenAI provides Node.js bindings that enable you to use generative AI pipelines in JavaScript and TypeScript applications.

:::warning API Coverage
Node.js bindings currently provide a subset of the full OpenVINO GenAI API available in C++ and Python. The focus is on core text generation (`LLMPipeline`) and text embedding (`TextEmbeddingPipeline`) functionality.
:::

> 

Author: At the top of the page, we noted that bindings can be used with both JS and TS. I think that will be enough for now.

> JavaScript/TypeScript bindings currently provide a subset of the full OpenVINO GenAI API available in C++ and Python. The focus is on core text generation (LLMPipeline) and text embedding (TextEmbeddingPipeline) functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Node.js bindings currently provide a subset of the full OpenVINO GenAI API available in C++ and Python. The focus is on core text generation (`LLMPipeline`) and text embedding (`TextEmbeddingPipeline`) functionality.
```

There are several naming patterns in docs for JS bindings - Node.js bindings, JavaScript/TypeScript, JavaScript (in code block language tabs).
I think we should choose one and keep the same unified pattern over all documents/pages.
I would prefer concise labels: "Node.js" (as it shows that it is for Node environment, not browser) or just "JavaScript" (but probably with adding a note in one place indicating execution in Node env only).

Author: I agree with you. JS and TS are very similar, and both could easily be converted to the other. The only advantage of TS is its types. In my opinion, this really helps and makes the code clearer.
Using TS, we demonstrate that our library supports types.

P.S. I am going to convert all of our samples to TS, which will match the documentation.

## Available Pipelines

The JavaScript/TypeScript bindings currently support:

- **LLMPipeline**: Text generation with Large Language Models
  - Chat mode with conversation history
  - Streaming support
  - Batch generation
  - Multiple sampling strategies (greedy, beam search)
  - Structured output
  - ReAct agent support
- **TextEmbeddingPipeline**: Generate text embeddings for semantic search and RAG applications

## Installation

To install OpenVINO GenAI JavaScript/TypeScript API, refer to the [Install Guide](https://docs.openvino.ai/2025/get-started/install-openvino.html).

## Quick Start Example

:::tip Model Preparation
Before using LLMPipeline, you need to convert your model to OpenVINO IR format.
See [Model Preparation](/docs/category/model-preparation) for details.
:::

> After installation, you can start using OpenVINO GenAI in your TypeScript projects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installation, you can start using OpenVINO GenAI in your Node.js projects:
```
